Have you, though, ever felt alone in your assignment, even if, for just a few hours in the
ministry?
For the Possean Bucanga may have felt that way early in his assignment.
He was the first circuit overseer for all of what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo
and the Republic of Congo.
He traveled great distances to visit the few brothers throughout the territory.
Come to what encouraged him the most to keep going.
In 1960, I was made a circuit overseer for the whole of Congo.
I was so happy to receive this privilege, but I was shocked and scared.
The assignment was huge.
Congo is a vast country.
I was afraid to go to places I didn't know.
I felt overwhelmed, so I turned to Jehovah.
Sometimes I had to go through savannas and across the jungle.
There were wild animals.
One day I climbed up a tree to find a place to sleep.
I tied myself to a branch with my belt.
I was afraid I would be taken by a boa snake.
I was afraid of getting lost in the forest.
That in the brothers was very difficult.
Sometimes the journey took many days.
I remember one day I left my house to visit the brothers to encourage them.
I left at 5.30 in the morning and I arrived at 7.30 that night.
I had to push my bicycle through sand for up to 13 miles or even more.
Other times we traveled by truck.
That was not easy.
We had to climb on top of the truck.
I had to hold on tight so as not to fall.
Congregations, isolated groups were far away from one another.
There were no phones at that time either.
Even though they did not know I was coming, they made me feel so welcome.
The brothers were really very hospitable.
When I arrived I was exhausted but so happy to see the brothers.
The kids of Wala was a religion.
They sent many letters to the Belgian branch asking to be recognized as Jehovah's Witnesses.
These people used our publications and used the name Watchtower.
It created a lot of confusion.
To clarify the matter, the organization prepared a booklet.
My mission was to check whether there were any genuine Jehovah's Witnesses in Kisangani.
We found out that these people were not Jehovah's Witnesses.
In all the confusion, people even tried to kill me during the trip.
Fortunately, I managed to escape.
Once it was Jehovah who assigned me this privilege, I was confident that he would always help me.
And today, I am very happy to have at my side my children, my grandchildren, and my great
grandchildren, all Jehovah's Witnesses.
Jehovah has given me many blessings.
I am truly grateful.
What a joy to be used by Almighty God.
Through all these years, I have never lacked anything.
Jehovah has given me this strength to serve him up until now, to the age of 86.
In everything and for everything, my trust really is in Jehovah.
There were 46 publishers in the whole of Congo.
Today, I hear there are more than 223,000 Jehovah's Witnesses in the Congo.
Today, when I see the increase of Jehovah's People, to me, it is like a miracle.
I thank Jehovah for allowing me to see the little one become a thousand here in the Congo.
Brother Wakonga continues to serve as an elder at nearly 88 years old.
Can you imagine yourself experiencing both the joys and difficulties he had as a circuit
overseer?
He courageously visited the Kittawala religious groups, who claimed to serve Jehovah,
only to find some were violent and practiced immorality.
But it was his reliance on Jehovah, and watching him turn the small group of brothers into
more than 200,000 that has kept him going.